{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 MarkerFelt-Thin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Instructions
\b0\fs28 \ul  \
\ulnone \
Each time your child eats, licks or \'91kisses\'92 a food from a particular colour group they then get to \'91fill in\'92 that colour on their rainbow. For instance, if your child eats a strawberry select the strawberry on the red page, click through to the interactive rainbow and touch anywhere on the rainbow and the red arc will fill in. \
\
Because protein is so important for young developing minds, we have included some of these options and can be used to colour in the clouds. \
\
Once all the colours in the rainbow are coloured in, there will be an exciting auditory and visual reward displayed on the page. However, please feel free to offer your child whatever further incentive you see fit on completion (refer to section below on "Rewards"). \
\

\b\fs36 Tips
\b0\fs28  \
\
Always keep the atmosphere light and fun, because encouraging kids to eat food that\'92s good for them should never be a battleground. \
\
Make sure you have all the food colour options available so that the full rainbow is achievable. It might also be helpful to keep some different options within the same colour group on hand. This will allow your child some control over what they eat and they will also be able to substitute one fruit or vegetable for a more preferred one. \
\
Don't put a time limit on finishing the rainbow i.e. all colours eaten in one day. Although it is important to have your "5 a day", the objective with this game is to get our Happy Little Eaters to taste and try new foods. If your child is happy to complete the rainbow in one day, fantastic! With fussy eaters, however, they may feel defeated before they begin, if forced. \
\
As experts agree, children need to be exposed to a new food 12 times before they are willing to accept it. For children with Autism or Obsessive Compulsive Disorder this figure may be double. In light of this, it is absolutely fine if this game simply helps children in taking steps towards tasting, licking food or \'91giving it a kiss\'92 is acceptable. \
\
All adults in the household need to be encouraging and supportive. You will also need to lead by example - your child needs to see you eating and ENJOYING healthy foods. \
\
If your child is battling with a particular colour, take him or her shopping for different options within that colour group. Giving your child choices will empower them and they will feel that they have some control over their lives. Following that, if you are still battling, pack the game away and try again in a week or two. Forcing and 5 fighting is a game you do not want to engage your child in the long term effects can be dire. \
\
If your child exhibits severe aversion towards new foods please ensure that you have ruled out any medical problems by consulting with your GP. Remember stay calm and try, try, try! \
\

\b\fs36 Rewards
\b0\fs28  \
\
We highly recommend offering rewards as further incentive. You will know your child and what kind of incentive they would respond to. If possible avoid candy or sugary treats and save desserts for dessert time. Obviously a reward that offers some physical activity is highly recommended i.e. a trip to the park/kicking the ball. \
\
If your child easily finishes their rainbow every day you may want to do a special\'92 treat at the end of the week i.e. a trip to the movies etc. We however, have found that immediate rewards work best and in some hardcore cases (my daughter!) candy was the only motivator she would consider. Hey, if it broadens their eating repertoire, which is the aim of this game, then we say go for it! \
\

\b\fs36 NOTE: \

\fs28 \
THIS APPLICATION DOES NOT CLAIM TO PROVIDE OR OFFER INSTRUCTION AS TO A FULL NUTRITIONAL GUIDE. IT IS SIMPLY A TOOL WITH WHICH TO INCENTIVIZE CHILDREN TO TASTE NEW, HEALTHY FOODS. IT IS A GAME TO ENCOURAGE VARIETY AND BROADEN YOUR CHILD'S FOOD REPERTOIRE. \
\
PLEASE ENSURE THAT BEFORE PROCEEDING WITH THIS GAME THAT YOU HAVE RULED OUT ANY MEDICAL RESTRICTIONS. "APPY LITTLE EATERS" AND THE MAKERS THEREOF DO NOT HOLD THEMSELVES RESPONSIBLE DUE TO ANY ADVERSE CIRCUMSTANCES RESULTING FROM FOOD ALLERGIES, INTOLERANCES, GASTROINTESTINAL RESTRICTIONS OR THE LIKE THEREOF. 
\b0 \
\
\'93So hungry I could eat a horse!\'94 \
\'93What colour horse?\'94}